**Introduction**
Teenagers today are far from what they were in the past couple of generations. They have more freedom to do what they want at a certain limit set by their parents or their own consciousness. Today’s teens are legitimately closer to their parents than previous generations, but their life course has also been shaped by income inequality that demoralizes their hopes for the future. Compared to previous generations, iGens believe they have less control over how their lives turn out. Instead, they think that the system is already rigged against them—a dispiriting finding about a segment of the lifespan that is designed for creatively reimagining the future (Divecha, 2017). With this in their minds, teenagers are more likely to focus on living their life to the fullest while they are young and free from life’s responsibilities. Some even enjoy the thrill of breaking simple rules set out by their elders or respective schools. Nadal-Vicens and Beresin states that neurobiologically speaking, the adolescent brain is poised for impulsivity and thrill seeking(n,d). While others indulge in something adventurous or breaking more than just simple rules like doing drugs or participating in sexual activities, both of which can end their young and happy teenage life.
Both can be addicting, but according to Jane Shin Park (2010), sex has become much more casual among teens, making them less mindful of the consequences. Also stating that they're living in an age where there's constant exposure to sexual material through all types of media. Teenagers will assume that sex is all fun and pleasure until they realize the risks that come along with it. Pregnancy during teenage years is also associated with a higher risk of health problems such as preeclampsia, anemia, contracting Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD’s), premature delivery, postpartum hemorrhage, and poor mental health outcomes (Zorilla, 2021). This can be linked to the life difference per generation. As the older generations had stricter lives in which they implement that strictness with their children, the younger generation parents have slowly become less strict when it comes to their parental care therefore granting their children more freedom. But the mild parental care is not experienced by everyone therefore creating a separate group of people where there are the people living with their ancestor discrete values and way of living and then there are also the ones living freely
The free and outgoing group are branded with stigma as they do not follow with the “true” Filipino values. Even Filipino parents of those groups are afraid of talking to their children about sex. As stated by Kim Thurler (2019), talking to their adolescents about sex makes many parents squirm, yet studies repeatedly show that kids who receive accurate, comprehensive information on sexuality from multiple sources go on to have healthier relationships and lower rates of teenage pregnancy, sexually transmitted infections, and sexual abuse. So, in response in order to deal with this situation, the Philippine government has passed the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012 (RH Act) after a 14-year wait. With this, sex education was integrated into public school curriculums for the students ranging from 10 to 19. It also funded health centers and public schools with free or subsidized contraceptives as stated by Zoë Nichols (2020). But the stigma did not stop there as pre-marital sex is against the belief of Roman Catholics, where 80% of Filipinos identifies as such. This has led to a difficult implementation of the RH Act as the Catholic Church believes that sex education will increase sexual relations which they fear as they oppose sex outside of marriage. Senior bishops believe the task of telling children about sex and relationships should be up to parents, not teachers, and that teaching sex education in schools, especially to young children, could have unintended consequences (BBC News, 2010).
Lack of sex education in schools has been identified as a major contributory factor to the high rate of teenage pregnancy and unsafe abortion in the country (Aboagyewaa, 2013). With the difficulty of its implementation, sex education has been uncertain and lacking which still leads to what it aimed to prevent, teenage pregnancy and STD’s. According to an article by the Dissertations expert(n,d), the education of South African students are affected by teenage pregnancy will be halted or as pregnancy issues will lead to academic performance, school absenteeism before they become school dropouts. These girls very rarely return to school after giving birth leaving their education level at a low standard. This can negatively affect the economy along with possible poverty due to the lack of support from their families. The lack of sex education affects not just the teenagers but also the economy since a teenager tackling life with a baby that they cannot fully take care of can lead to poverty. Teen mothers are less likely to complete high school. They are much more likely to not complete college. This puts them at a disadvantage when it comes time to find a good paying job (Gaille, 2016).

**Problem Statement**
The main objective of this study is to analyze the teenage pregnancy rate of 2013. It aims to determine the following:
1. Relationship between teenage pregnancy and their education.
2. Education level in which sex education should begin.
Taking advantage of youth and enjoying life before responsibilities comes is a great way to live, but doing so without care is reckless and alarming since the effects can be life changing. Teenage pregnancy and STD’s, an effect of recklessness, is a huge problem in the Philippines due to the lacking sex education. Not only will sex education improve the lives of the future teenagers, but also the economy of the Philippines.

**Significance of the proposed project**
Teenagers – this study helps inform them of the risks of being ignorant when it comes to sex where they are not openly taught by their parents about it.
Parents – parents are the models of their children and their guide, with this study, they will learn that it is better to teach them as early as possible about the responsibilities that comes with sex.
Students – this study can be utilized by the students as a reference for their own studies and as a way of learning the importance of knowledge.
Government – this study discusses how early teenage pregnancy can affect the economy therefore leading to a serious and strict implementation of sex education.
Community – this study can help inform the community about the situation of surrounding teenage pregnancy. It can also help in the success of the implementation if the stigma of teenage sex can be removed.

**Methods**
The researchers used the data sets provided by the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) to analyze the age group of teenage pregnancies in the Philippines. Examination of the data sets will be the first step. The examined data sets will then provide data that answers the problem statement through comparisons.  With the gathered information, a scenario analysis was executed to identify the actions needed to be taken in order to properly handle teenage pregnancy.

**Expected output**
The goal of this study is to spread information about teenage pregnancy through analyzed data and how sex education can actually improve the economic state of the Philippines. As teenage pregnancy can lead to a lot of life-changing crisis that is one of the main reasons why the Philippines has one huge problem with poverty. Having a baby early can affect the well-being and financial status of the parents, which can lead to the abandonment of the teenagers along with the baby and adding another struggling family to the population.
This study is expected to remove the stigma surrounding sex education. That having an open mind about sex is safer for the future than having a closed mind with inherited values that makes people seek the unknown in secrecy.

**Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of the Project**
The SDG that this project aims to attain is No Poverty and Good Health and Well-Being.
Goal 1: No Poverty – intends to reduce the poverty rates by lessening the number of struggling families made through early pregnancy.
Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being – to address the alarming cases of STD’s spreading throughout the country.

